Our Timer class is now mostly complete.
The last thing we need to do is make sure that we can somehow emit these events or otherwise tell the
outside world.
That's something important just happened inside of our Timer class.
So we're going to add in the ability to detect whenever the timer starts whenever we tick down a second
and whenever the timer is complete as well so in other words our time remaining hits zero.
There are many different ways that we can actually implement these things so we could actually emit
an event from our class but we're going to take a more straightforward approach.
We're going to say that every single time that one of these things occurs we're going to call a callback
function that can be provided to our Timer class.
So that's how we're going to essentially notify the outside world.
Let's write out a little bit of test code really quickly and as soon as we do I think you're going to
get a better sense of what we're going for with this.
OK.
So back inside my editor I'm gonna go down to the bottom where we create our instance of the Timer class
right now our Timer class takes three arguments duration input start button and pause button.
We're now going to pass in a fourth argument to this thing as well.
The fourth argument is gonna be totally optional so we can use our timer with or without the fourth
argument and we're going to need to make sure that we write our code out to accommodate that.
And inside this object we're going to pass in a series of different callbacks that we're going to make
sure get in vote at very specific times during our timers life cycle.
So the three different callbacks are going to pass in.
And again we're going to make sure that these are all optional are going to be on start on tick and
on complete so if we provide these callback functions we're going to make sure that our timer calls
each of them at some appropriate time.
And so this is how we're going to essentially hook up our timer to the outside world and allow us to
kind of react to the timer starting to a second ticking down or to our timer completing as well.
This right here is what is going to allow us to really kind of segment or isolate the different parts
of our code base so isolate the timer from the logic that actually updates the border animation.
I remember that was the entire idea that we spoke about over here where we had said oh yeah the timer
would be really messy if we mixed in all the border stuff.
So this is how we're going to emit these little events or essentially signal to the outside world that
hey timer just started timer just tick down and timer is complete.
And so eventually in these different callback methods we'll add in some code to update that order animation
and we could potentially add in some other code inside of each of these to do other stuff as well like
maybe play a sound when the timer is all complete or play a ticking sound whenever on tick gets called
and so on so in order to demonstrate how each of these are going to work let's first just focus on on
start.
So we're just going to think about on start for right now.
So I'm going to say that whenever our timer starts I want to do a console log of timer started so we
need to make sure that this OnStar callback that we are providing to our timer is going to be invoked
the instant that we start up our timer so in order to do so we need to first go into our timer implementation.
We're going to first update our constructor function and have it receive this object that has all these
callbacks inside of it.
So let's do that right away it's going to go up to my constructor so our constructor is now going to
receive a fourth argument.
So we're going to receive that as callbacks.
Now I want to make sure that my timer class is still going to work even if that object is not provided.
So the base implementation of our timer like just to get a basic timer that works we're going to make
sure or require that we get the duration put start button and pause button or we're going to say that
you do not have to pass in a set of callbacks at all in order to get the timer to work.
Now for the purposes of this application there's not a good reason for that.
I just want to show you how we would write out this code to say Oh yeah.
The callbacks are optional so to make sure that we have some optional fourth argument here we're going
to check and see if callbacks was provided so if we call our timer with only three arguments now just
those three we would fail this if statement because callbacks would be undefined but if we did pass
in an object representing our set of callbacks then we will enter this if statement.
So inside the if statement we'll put a little bit of code to process the callbacks that are just passed
in so I to say this dot on START is callbacks that on start so we're going to essentially just save
a reference to the callback that was passed in.
Now anytime that we start up our timer we're going to call this on START function that we just save
the reference to now we are going to eventually come back to still if statement and handle the other
two callbacks as well.
But like I said right now we're just focused on on start okay.
So we've now got a reference to the on start method.
Now we need to make sure that we call it at some very specific point in time.
So inside of the start function this is where we should probably call that callback and signal to the
outside world a timer starting right now.
So right before a tick I'm going to first check and see if this dot on START is defined because remember
it is entirely possible that it won't be defined if we didn't pass in any callbacks then we never assigned
anything like that never occurred right there.
And so if we just tried to just directly call this dot on start we would get an error saying something
like undefined is not a function so we do have to see and just do a quick check to see if we were given
in on START callback if we do have it then we're going to go ahead and invoke it inside of here.
Let's say this dot on start okay.
That's pretty much it.
Let's just on START.
Let's do a save right here.
We're going to go back over to our browser and test this out so I should be able to click on Start in
the instant I do.
I should see time I started well that's pretty much it.
So that's how we're going to communicate to the outside world that something just occurred or something
important just occurred inside of our timer now that we've got the on start wired up.
We'll take a quick pause come back in just a moment and we will wire up the other two callbacks as well
so on tick and on complete.